---
title: "Into a Memory"
date: "2025-05-14T00:37:24.584685+00:00"
tags: ["short story", "syndicate", "nonfiction"]
---

I decided to go ahead and publish this essay I wrote way back in college! I doubt it will find any future homes, so now it will live on my website forever. I hope you enjoy this old essay!

The beginning is a tad speedy because the first draft went over the word count. I couldn't find the first draft, so here it is.

# The essay.

When I was little, I did not wander as a cloud. I floated on one.

I have to admit, when a gift book of poetry was thrust upon me by a friend, I did not think I would find one that would capture my interest or my memory. For days, my fingers would burn the Braille table of contents as my fingers blazed past page numbers in a hopeless search to find something that I could connect with, for something that I could discuss and have it be genuine. I was lost and my hopes for finding a poem that would even hold my interest long enough for me to enjoy it seemed to be an impossible reach.

On my fifth haphazard hunt through the table of contents, my fingers caught something that I had not noticed. I was instantly drawn because it sounded familiar. "I wandered lonely as a cloud." By William Wordsworth. I wanted to see why the poem sounded familiar. I had an odd sense that it would be significant to my life, but I did not know why it would be or even how. I wanted to explore the kind of emotional journey that this poem would take me through, and so I did.

After listening to the first line, I was instantly transported to a memory that I did not even know I had.

It is late at night, and I am six. I remember feeling the Braille calendar poised in my lap, my finger tracing the soft indentations of the moons among the days. A sound erupts from the living room and I look up, my ears picking up every shift of the air just a few rooms from me. Shouting soon breaks out as if I am in a pep rally. The shouting grows louder and obscener with each passing word. My mother has made her appearance on stage yet again, and I start to sob. I am guessing that Grandma and Grandpa are out in the fray as well, but I do not want to be in here all alone. The shouting reaches a volume that I do not even know exists, and my fright and anger mesh into one emotion as the stupidity of the situation finally reaches me. As my mother and her husband continue to scream at each other while mixing in some sounds of hitting and smacking, Grandma comes into the room. I know it is she because I can smell the peach scented perfume that I always smell when she is within a few feet from me. It is as if the smell alone is a blanket, about to wrap me up. My bedroom door softly clicks shut, and tender shoes thud over to me. She takes my small hand in hers.

"Are you ready for bed?" she asks me. I smile and nod, while all the while trying to hide my anger at my stupid mother.

"Well, I'm sorry. I don't have a story for you tonight. All I have is this book of poems your grandfather gave to me." I groan at the mention of poetry. Even at that young age, I much rather prefer it when she read me something GOOD such as Nancy Drew or The Hardy Boys. I do not want to stay here any longer. Moreover, I like it when Grandma reads to me. Outside of my bubble of safety, my mother starts to cry as grandpa yells at her about how stupid she is acting. I hear pages slowly open. Grandma leans to read and instantly I am taken to the place of golden daffodils, leaving the screaming behind me.

I wandered lonely as a cloud,

that floats on high o'er vales and hills,

when all at once I saw a crowd,

a host, of golden daffodils.

I am soon floating on that cloud looking at dancing yellow flowers. As Grandma continues to read the poem to me, I feel a sense of peace. I am flying, and the newly developed sounds of clashing in the kitchen are just a faint whisper. I am swept away by Grandma's reading. We both are wandering as a cloud, but not lonely. I listen with eagerness as she finishes the poem, allowing me to ignore the stupid smashing sounds in the next room. Once she is all done, she tucks me in and kisses me goodnight. She tells me she loves me and then leaves the room. I soon drift on my own cloud of safety, finally able to feel calm and happy enough to go to sleep. I am comfortable and soon floating on my own cloud that is floating across vales and hills far from the treachery of the world. I am safe.

Back in my apartment, alone, I rapidly flit through all my previous interpretations and memories of this long lost poem. I'm never one to read poetry, or even fully appreciate it, but this poem held a special place in my heart for so many years that it astounds me I forgot about the poem.

I flash between interpretations, including ones given in school and in class work. For a while, I pictured literal golden tendrils vibrantly swaying in the breeze, with a faceless person looking down on this dancing show.

I open the Braille book again, find the poem, and read it again, my fingers bringing the words to life. When I've finish, I realize there's a new interpretation stuck in my mind. Or, perhaps, it's a tribute.

I picture someone looking down on people, but not just any people, I picture someone looking down at me, and a few other people, some Deaf, some Blind, some old, some young, some black, some white, some Asian, and some of everything. All of us are dancing with an airy display for our spectator. We all twirl and giggle as we all choreograph a perfect rhythm. I no longer picture the shadow on top of the cloud as having no face or figure. It now has a form and a shape to it. It is someone I know. I picture the wrinkly old woman looking down at us softly smiling. She is comfortable on the pink cloud, basking in her glory and her peace. I am sure, if we were closer, we would smell the peach scented perfume. I picture the old woman slowly bringing her wrinkled hands together, clapping and shedding silent tears as she watches the spectacle. I would like to think that she would be smiling at this point; glad to finally have the opportunity to watch the best show in the world-the show of a host of golden daffodils tossing our heads up in a sprightly dance.