---
title: "The Death of Sherlock Holmes: a dated uprising"
date: '2025-09-15T18:06:32.265471+00:00'
tags: [nonfiction, throwbacks]
---

Since I am having a bit of a drafting slump, you all get to read an essay I did way back in college. In truth, it wasn't my best work. The citations are incorrect, and my thesis was not very strong. Still, I believe it's really good to look back and see how much we've grown as artists and writers.

## Begin Essay.

A coffee cup sat a few inches to the right of my laptop. There was a pinched concentrated look on my face as I typed in one name into the search box of a database at my local college. I expected to find nothing of interest and move onto some other author. Upon reading a few articles I found something that pivoted my questions skyward.

It begins in a medical room. A patient sits in a chair. A medical teacher and his student, Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, were pondering a medical diagnosis. Joseph Bell takes an eight-second look at the patient. He deduces almost everything about their patient. Doyle stares in bewilderment at his professor. He waits to see if Bell is correct. Bell is correct. A character begins to form in Doyle's mind. When Doyle begins writing, he remembers the teacher who could glimpse into someone's life. Attaching this characteristic to the name Sherlock Holmes he began to flesh out a character that would be remembered for decades.

I began this research thinking that I would not find much of anything to think about. I was sadly mistaken. One of the most interesting aspects while starting out the research was Sherlock Holmes himself. I wanted to dwell deep into his mind and place my own magnifying glass to his existence.

I was fascinated with Holmes. I did not care about the mysteries themselves but I was intrigued by his mannerisms, his likes and dislikes, and his thought process. What was he like inside of his own head? Why does he think the way he does, and what inspired such a character? That was 9 the first thing I had to know above anything else. This small mystery had plagued me ever since my first reading of the short stories. I soon got the entire Sherlock Holmes collection in audio and began a journey that would have unexpected results.

Throughout my readings I studied Holmes. I wanted to see what inspired this character. I wanted to figure out just how much Doyle loved his world famous detective. I found much more than Holmes could find.

There is one thing I learned from experience about characters in literature. Writers love their characters as if they were their own child. If there was ever a character who could win the hearts of the public, it was Holmes. He definitely captured my heart the first time I met him. His assurance and intellect and overall wit made me want to sit down and have a cup of tea with the fellow. After reading a few short stories and getting used to being around Holmes I decided to find out how much everybody else loved the witty detective. Surely Holmes was commonly liked by all people including his creator.

I began by looking up character analysis in Gale. As I was studying the vast articles I found one article that revealed something shocking. I read many articles by people who enjoyed Holmes as if he were the principal of a friend so seeing this made my thinking cap spin backward.

The public may have become great harmonious friends with Holmes, claiming that they knew him better than they knew some of their family but there was one person who detested the world famous detective. Doyle hated his best creation. Upon reading this in a personal reflective article I wondered if this was even true. How could this be? Surely, a character that has brought him such fame and fortune would have a solid steadfast place in Doyle's heart... I was mistaken.

Intrigued with the realization I set out to find just how much Doyle hated the sharp-eyed detective. I soon found my answer in a letter that Doyle wrote to his mother. As I was reading the text I pictured a quill shaking in the author's hand as he wrote, "I think of slaying Holmes ... winding him up for good and all. He takes my mind from better things." I reeled back and shock. I just could not grasp why he hated Holmes so vehemently. Holmes was a cunning disarmingly smart and handsome fellow. How could Doyle hate such a creation?

This mystery was getting deeper with every article. I suddenly realized I now had something solid to look for. I knew that Doyle killed Holmes in The Final Problem. What I did not know was exactly when Doyle wanted to murder the detective.

Many scholarly journalists would argue that he did not want to kill Holmes until after "the Memoirs of Sherlock Holmes." many journalists say, including Michael Atkinson, "Rarely has a story had such a straightforward purpose as "The Final Problem". The goal is simple: shelve Holmes, for good." I have to say that they are correct about the fact that The Final Problem's main purpose is to kill Holmes, but I did not think this is where the plot began.

I did not know where to begin my sleuthing so I started looking for characters that may rival Holmes in the tales.

After reading the stories for a second time I did not see any clues in the characters, suspects, contenders, or in the detective himself. Dejected, I began to read Doyle's biography to try to determine anything in there. Perhaps Doyle would really show me his feelings in his reflections. As I was reading a year jumped out at me as if it held a flashing beacon. The year tickled something in the back of my mind. I knew that I saw the year somewhere before when I was scanning the library databases. The problem was I couldn't remember where I saw the year or even what article. I decided to try looking on Google to see if this one year tied into two events. If it did then I would at least have something to compare. I found out that a Sherlock Holmes story was published in that year. Since I had that significant event I scrutinized the biography again. The year kept poking my memory wanting me to remember its significance. The year was 1893. I soon found my answer in Doyle's autobiography The Doctor and the Detective.

Two significant things happened in the year 1893. A brand new Holmes story made its way into literary journals. "The Cardboard Box." The second thing, stated in the biography, was Doyle's father died in 1893. I wanted to concentrate on the story more though, because I thought it held more clues to my initial question of when the plot to murder Holmes began. I dived into the investigating ring ready for action! I got more than what I bargained for.

The instant that I knew those two events had something in common I knew that I just had to read that story again. The answer had to be in some, if not all, lines of the story. It just had to be the place the murder plot began! The fact that his father died just before the publication could not have been a coincidence. I quickly shuffled through my CD sleeves looking for the collection that held this story. After a third time of listening to it, I realized how different it was.

Typical Holmes stories consist of Holmes and his sidekick, Dr. Watson, in their apartment on Baker Street. A character approaches the dynamic duo in desperate need of their help. Holmes deduces some characteristics about their client with some observant glances; the team dig as much of the mystery out as possible, and then the new character leaves their apartment leaving Holmes to tell Watson some things he notices or noticed about the client. The second half of the story, the half that deviates from the safe norm, has the team traveling to various places outside of the bubble of Baker Street. The reader instantly knows that Holmes and Watson are about to get into a tangled web of clues and suspects. This climax of the short stories sets everything up for the ending scenes. After the adventure outside of their headquarters, the team head back to their safe haven where Holmes  pieces together the events that they have seen, heard, or figured out along the way using clues, testimonies, or object placements that neither Watson or the reader didn't detect. 

As soon as the story ended, I knew The Cardboard Box shifted slightly from the normal Holmes formula in the closing scenes. 

In The Cardboard Box it does not end with Holmes proving to his readers and his close friend that everything can be observed and noticed thus there is in fact a reason for everything and that science is deviant. Instead, this story ends with a confession. It ends with a confession from the person who committed the crime: the tale ends with Jim Browner's account of how and why he murdered his wife and her lover. Before, while reading the tale, I glimpsed this scene as just a never before seen confession with excruciating detail on a particular murder. Now, however, knowing that Doyle's father died in the same year that this story was published I now knew that this story formula deviated from the norm and that there was a very clearcut reason for the formula switch. I needed to take a better look at this scene through new calculating eyes.

I knew that this story was different. I knew that there was a bigger connection then I saw. My task was to find out, exactly, what that connection was. 

Something began to tickle the back of my mind, and it was about a character. Since Jim didn't act like any other Holmes suspect seen yet I had to keep my magnifying glass on him. I had my target and now it was time to track down more secrets. I watched him the minute he appeared on the scene. I did not notice anything revealing until his confession at the end.

I listened to the story again paying close attention to the desperation in Browner's tale. I thought, for a second, I could hear Holmes murdering someone. The amount of precision and accuracy in which Jim detailed the murder was with such observance and attention to detail it became increasingly difficult knowing that I was not listening to Sherlock Holmes. His tone when he tells the tale is full of malice directed straight at Sherlock Holmes. I could easily tell that Doyle poured his murderous desire into his own character. Clues and pieces began clicking into place even faster as Jim's murder account became more detailed. I replayed that entire scene again. Upon my fifth time listening to Browner confess the murder of his wife, I heard a message that I did not think I would hear in this story. I stared slack-jawed as I listened to Doyle's hidden message portrayed through Jim.

I could hear the subtle malice towards Holmes Doyle was trying to suppress. Through Browner's confession I saw that he was much like Holmes. He also had a keen eye. He told me inadvertently when he was talking about his wife. "As I walked in at the door I saw the light of welcome in my wife's face. But as she saw who it was it faded again, and she turned away with a look of disappointment. That was enough for me" (338) "I looked into her eyes," Browner writes of his jealous sister-in-law," and I read it all there. There was no need for her to speak or for me either" (337). 

As I was reading that section, I could sense the vibe that Doyle had towards Holmes. He poured his true feelings into browner. I heard Doyle's cry as he begged someone to crush this first-rate character. It was staring at me the whole time and now that I had a lock on it, it held me. I knew that I was not into just any Sherlock Holmes story anymore. I was listening to Doyle tell his readers that he wanted to get rid of the delightful sleuth. I had the exact time period that Doyle plotted the murder of Holmes... I had solved the mystery that questioned many readers and journalists alike. 1893 was the year that Doyle planned the murder of Holmes.

I immediately wanted to see if anyone else had realized what I had. In all of the journals I was looking at from Gale no one had.

Journalists still speculated. William Gillette writes, "Something mysterious may have indeed happened to Conan Doyle in 1893." I just had to stare in bewilderment. The answer was right in front of me in his biography as well as his own story. Why were journalists still confused? Was I the only one who really looked deep into the death of Sherlock Holmes and made all these connections?

I was. I was also disappointed. I was not disappointed so much that no one had bothered to make the connection but I was disappointed with the speculations that every journalist seemed to allude to. It had to be something "mysterious." I could not help it. I chortled at the absurdity of it all. Why did it have to be "mysterious?"

Could it be that he was just overcome with grief, unable to carry on anymore for a much longer period? Did their really have to be something mysterious that happened to Doyle? I did not think so. Authors I know will usually have something happen in their lives that changes their whole thought process. One author that stood out for me the most in this department was the famous horror writer Stephen King. I chuckled as I compared King's "mysterious" car accident to Doyle's "mysterious happening" in 1893. I did not see a big difference.

I thought about the car accident that nearly killed Stephen King and how his writing began to shift systematically into the darker portion of King's untapped imagination. I began to chuckle at all the mysterious things that should have happened to Doyle in 1893. Nothing mysterious had to happen to Stephen king, did it? Why did it have to happen with Doyle?

Knowing that any further research in the databases was frivolous, I began to re-read each story after The Cardboard Box, now that the initial mystery was solved, curiosity got the better of me. I wanted to see how much the writing, or scenes, story, characters, or resolution would change. I kept a vital eye on each tale, trying to feel what Doyle felt page after page of listening to Holmes and Watson talk. I could almost hear Doyle screaming in agony as his permanent houseguest inside of his head dominated the atmosphere. I also noticed something else about Holmes. He had changed.

Some of the few noticeable quirks were Holmes's temper. It grew just a tad shorter when explaining things to Watson. As the stories drew closer to The Final Problem, I could feel elements of the stories, characters, and overall creation shift out of the norm. Some shifts came in the form of suspects not acting like the previous ones in the collections before The Cardboard Box. Some changes came in the way Holmes acted. The whole Sherlock Holmes story concept had been altered. I suddenly could feel how badly Doyle wanted to kill Sherlock Holmes. The desire poured through each shift in the Sherlock Holmes formula. The one person who's attention to detail matched Holmes, didn't care about structure and formula the closer The Final Problem came.

After finishing The Final Problem and witnessing the death of Sherlock Holmes I began to think about other characters in a series and how a series could completely change based on the will of the writer. Instantly Harry Potter rose to my suspect list. 

Harry Potter was a long lasting seven book series that took years to complete. The only difference I could detect in the series was the last book in the series: the seventh book. I had a sneaking suspicion that J. K. Rowling just wanted to kill Harry Potter and never have to write about him again. I wanted to know if that were true. Upon my first reading there were many story elements that just didn't add up. I wanted to know if that was because she hated writing Harry Potter books by that time. I began to read the last book to see if I could feel the longing.

As I was reading the seventh Harry Potter book I could feel the quick typing on the page. I could feel the dispassion for story and plot holes. I could feel the need to get it all out and over with because the passion had long since passed. These writers were not writing anymore, they were working and they wanted to move onto a new job and new projects. After making so many connections and so many realizations, now that I could sympathize with these burned out writers, I was deeply saddened. I slowly shut down my laptop and gazed pensively at a Holmes audio book on my mahogany desk. My dream of becoming a writer was always shining within my existence. Since I know what happened to these successful writers I didn't want to have that happen to me. I hoped that writing would not become a chore for me.

These two writers would not leave my subconscious. I was deeply sad that two good writers have lost their zeal for writing and wanted to end it all. For good measure I opened up a folder on my laptop where many of my essays sat. I could easily remember the feeling of embarking on an adventure as my fingers struck down every letter. I opened up all the essays on my laptop remembering that I wanted to write these essays. I enjoyed the writing process a lot. I was still afraid. I was afraid of losing my writing zest as two good writers have.

I hoped I would not turn into something that I didn't want to become. I vowed to always enjoy my job. Whatever magazine I would be writing for, every book signing I'd attend, every new character I invent, I'd feel and I'd love just as I would my own child. I would love my fans and I would never hurry to get a series done. I vowed that I would be an old man, furiously typing out my last novel. Sitting there feeling a mixture of awe and sadness I stroked the thick sleeve where all the timeless Sherlock Holmes stories were held. Perhaps it was a dream. Perhaps it was a forewarning but it soon invaded my mind.

I am in a hospital room. Two doctors are leaning over me their voices strained with sadness as they speculate how much longer I have. I know that these are the last breaths I will take but I have not stopped yet. Why should I stop now? I am determined. My wrinkled hands skillfully type string after string of letters on a futuristic machine sitting on my lap. The talking computer rapidly echoes words I type into my ear. My face is complacent as I finish the last sentence. As if on cue I start to close my eyes as my fingers feebly type out two words, six letters, and one last novel. I don't know if I'm going to sleep, or if I'm dying, but I know that I have worked hard, and I've enjoyed every draft of it. There is no mystery here. Just before I drift off I listen to the two words, made of six letters that make up my last book. A smile is on my face, as it has always been with the completion of a new novel. The world goes black as a robotic voice says THE END.

Source Citation:
 
Atkinson, Michael. "Staging the Disappearance of Sherlock Holmes: The Aesthetics of Absence in 'The Final Problem.'." Gettysburg Review 4.2 (Spring 1991): 206-214. Rpt. in Short Story Criticism. Ed. Thomas J. Schoenberg and Lawrence J. Trudeau. Vol. 83. Detroit: Gale, 2005. Literature Resources from Gale. Web. 10 Nov. 2011.
William Gillette, THE PAINFUL PREDICAMENT OF SHERLOCK Holmes, Midwest Quarterly 42.1 (Autumn 2000): 183-198. Rpt. in Short Story Criticism. Ed. Thomas J. Schoenberg and Lawrence J. Trudeau. Vol. 83. Detroit: Gale, 2005. Literature Resources from Gale. Web. 10 Nov. 2011.
 
Doyle, Sir Arthur. ""The Cardboard Box"." In Sherlock Holmes: The Complete Novels and Stories, Vol. II. New York: Bantam Classics, 1986.
14
 
Doyle, Sir Arthur. "The Final Problem." In Sherlock Holmes: The Complete Novels and 
Stories, Vol. II. New York: Bantam Classics, 1986.