---
title: "Response to ElevenLabs Partnership Inquiry"
date: '2025-05-25T03:06:22.236994+00:00'
tags: ["blog and journal", "rants"]
---

I've [written about AI before, many times,](/posts/tags/ai/) and have ranted about AI many times on social media, so I'm not really keen on hashing why I just dislike the whole industry.

ElevenLabs reached out to me today. I'm sure they've found me in some long forgotten influencer database or something, but they specifically mentioned this new blog, not an old website, so clearly my posts are making the rounds somewhere.

Some would ask, well, why not just take their money? The problem is, they offered me two avenues.

The first avenue was an affiliate partnership. I’d need to refer people to them. No thank you!

The second partnership offer was a sponsorship post idea, where they actually pay me to publish whatever garbage they come up with in house. I couldn't figure out how to legally just take their sponsorship money and then never publish the blog post, so, instead, I decided to reply here and send them the link.

I wish I knew more lawyers. I'm sure they could help me get one up on future corporations such as this, as it would give me immense pleasure to take their money and just never directing traffic to them or anything.

Speaking of traffic, [here's a fun lawsuit about ElevenLabs you can read!](https://www.thevoicerealm.com/blog/a-look-into-the-elevenlabs-lawsuit/) How's that for your traffic, ElevenLabs?

I reached out and said I was interested in the sponsored post offer, just to see how much they'd pay me.

They couldn't give me a straight answer so I wanted to end this correspondence and make sure they never email me again.

So, ElevenLabs, this is my reply to you!

# The email reply.

Keep in mind, he offered me an unspecified amount for one sponsored blog post. Since he couldn't even tell me in his first email how much he’d be paying me, I didn't want to drag this out any longer so I replied with the below.

Dear Mark,

Thank you so much for your interest! It's fantastic that you read Sightless Scribbles and see value in advertising on my blog! I’d love to take you up on that offer, as I haven't had a vacation in a while, and I desperately need a good fuck, so your sponsorship money will allow me to take a vacation to where Rich immigrants live, and they can shower me with sweaty bodies as I teach them very useful English phrases such as, can you teach me about prompt injection because your financial contributions will finally allow me to enact my agenda of having every day folks without capital systematically demolish all AI servers. You’re helping fund this goal, so thank you!

Here's my process. Once I receive the blog post in question, I'll go out later that night and get viscerally shit faced on ice cream and sugar, thereby leading me to a night inside of a strangers condo where I'll eat all his ice cream, we talk about capitalism and books, and while all this is happening, I'll work on never publishing your post.

Of course, if they're rich immigrants, they'll speak better English than I do because I'm a product of capitalism and had my education in FL, so excuse me if I mix up worthless tech inventions, such as AI, for useful things such as roads.

So how will you be paying me for this sponsored post? My account on Grindr is heartedly poppin’ off and I need to answer these bulging abs and fetish requests before the end of the month. I need this money so I can fly first class. my direct deposit information is below. I look forward to hearing from you and seeing what your sponsored post will be about! But could you send me the money first?

I plan on thinking about planning on publishing it after I've spent all your money to live like I'm a rich snob for a couple of days getting utterly rammed on every chic balcony I can think of. I'll even take pictures of the many men I'm with and I'll even tag it, this hot sweaty gay romp has been sponsored by ElevenLabs.

To make it even more exciting, I could even send you pictures for your partnership press release! Please note that I'm a bit of a sex fiend, so there's no telling what angel will be next to me on my bed for the professional shot. I can tell you; to prepare your European business customers, it's going to be a cacophony of melanin   skin in various degrees of perspiration. This way, your brand is inclusive!

Thank you for this partnership opportunity! I look forward to hearing back from you!

Robert Kingett.

[A broke, blind, blogger that needs money](/support/)