---
title: "Let me visit your estate"
date: '2025-06-10T03:09:17.565475+00:00'
tags: [blog and journal]
---

If you want to skip the commentary, scroll down to the solution.

Interesting posts come to me at the most interesting times. This one happened to come across my Mastodon feed as I was trying to walk to my apartment door with a water bottle balanced on my head.

Earlier today, I don't have a hand free, so I'd figured my head could balance a water bottle. It is slow going, but I get there, with ear buds in my ears, phone in my pocket, and a very hungry stomach.

VoiceOver tells me, well, that someone had shared the lovely article, ["I am rich and have no idea what to do with my life."](https://vinay.sh/i-am-rich-and-have-no-idea-what-to-do-with-my-life/)

Funny, I think. I'm poor, and I'm trying to find a rich friend that I can educate about internet packets and machine learning, of any ethnicity, that can also cook me delicious gourmet food as I languish on his balcony, knowing exactly what I'm doing with my life as I give him wisdom only poor people like me have.

My goals, shall we say, are unattainable, but all the same, it would be nice to know *someone* in the higher income bracket department. Well, anybody else except this guy. Whoever he was. If he had all this money and didn't know what to do with his life, well, I could think of about 200 gay and straight people that could definitely give him something to do, in exchange for his lavish money, but let's first have a peak at the author before we dive in, shall we?

I enter my apartment, plop my water bottle down on a countertop that, thankfully, hasn't had a bare ass on it yet, open the link, and instead of reading the article first, I go straight to the homepage.

I realize that I have absolutely no clue who this guy was, at all, but he sounded like, well, [like a tech bro.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tech_bro)

Maybe I'd need to rethink my rich friend specifications. Must be non-American and have more than zero percentage of melanin. That way, a tech bro will never grace my digital, or literal, doorstep again. It's getting to the point where I'm becoming scared to talk to white people in public, and I'm so pale I get mistaken for toothpaste at the store.

I'm intrigued. His homepage is a bullet point list. He's invested in things. Ran companies. Started companies. Has more money than I will ever understand in my lifetime, and, well, Here's the only thing you need to know about this, hmm, shall we say, bro?

> i invest in funds and companies almost entirely off founder vibe.

No wonder. Also, unles your shift key is broken, the lower case I is such an eye roll to me.

> Yesterday I wired 99.7% of my money to my parents so they can retire early. They dedicated their lives to ensure my sister and I had a much better upbringing than themselves. I don't fucking care what people say.
>
> 🇺🇸
> Go America.
> Go capitalism.
> Go free markets.
> Go hard work.
> 🇺🇸

[View the original tweet here](https://x.com/vhmth/status/1264256348738355200)

The opening paragraph knocks the wind out of me.

> Life has been a haze this last year. After selling my company, I find myself in the totally un-relatable position of never having to work again. Everything feels like a side quest, but not in an inspiring way. I don't have the same base desires driving me to make money or gain status. I have infinite freedom, yet I don't know what to do with it, and, honestly, I'm not the most optimistic about life.

If you dive into the post, you'll learn that he calls his coworkers NPC's. He likes nature. He unironically uses the word, cringe, and this makes me want to burn his bank account. I hate the word cringe. It's the most online slang word I've ever encountered in my life and anybody that unironically uses it doesn't deserve to keep their money. While you're visiting this website, the Robert Kingett tax for that slang word is in full effect, so give me your money.

I swiftly come to the conclusion this guy could probably do with an afternoon of intense art immersion. Still, I have a solution for similar rich people in his very predicament.

He has no idea what to do with his life? I could think of one thing. Just one thing, and, trust me, my solution will be far cheaper than his therapy bills.

On a similarly related note, why do I get the feeling tech bros never interact with any kind of art? I get the sense that if you were to ask them what their favorite song is, they'd stare back with utter astonishment before gasping, "You mean people really have favorite songs?"

But this is my solution too, not so much him, but to all other, kinder rich people that are feeling lonely.

## My solution.

Let me vacation in your estate or giant guest house, guest room, anything, for a month and bring all my diverse artist friends ranging from painters to writers to bands and more.

I'm being fully serious here.

Let me live in your giant estate for a month! I'm not joking! That's going to be the best investment you can offer people. Just let me bring my diverse friends and we'll show you the art we're working on.

I'm dead serious. I have so many friend and family stories about growing up poor and what others would call white trash, that I could entertain you for days on end with questions I'd ask, jokes I'd tell, perspectives I'll share.

I don't drink or smoke, so I'll be a perfect addition to the mansion. I'd even play games with you. I'd love to play Air Hockey with you as I tell stories about what it's like living paycheck to paycheck, wondering what basic civil right I will need to fight for today. How do I defend myself from the world today?

I'm very orderly so I won't make a mess. I'll introduce you to so many cool people/cool artists. We all could come to your mansion and give you a glimpse into cultures and worlds without you having spent a single dime.

The catch?

If you're a gay or bi cis man, I love hugs and cuddles. If you're a straight cis man but heteroflexible I'll just cuddle with you, but really, the world needs more intimacy and connection, not less of it.

My lack of cuisine knowledge could actually be an asset to you. As I ask you what's in Kerrygold, that'll give you the perfect opportunity to sit and think about the knowledge of food and food ingredients that I simply don't have and have never had access to. This will enhance your critical thinking skills, guaranteed.

I'd even teach you how to shop for deals! Having no choice but to beg people for money every time I publish a blog post, I've acquired skills regarding shopping on the internet out of necessity because I don't have enough money to shop for things, so I can't just get what I want to buy.

If you don't know how to set up your new computer, I'll gladly do it for you and teach you some things about the inner workings of an operating system. That's how versatile I am.

Even though I appear to be ignorant on many worldly topics, such as geography, this is an asset to you because by explaining to me the difference between things, especially about cultures from other countries, you'd be sharpening your mind. I could ask a billion questions, just talking to you like a human instead of an ATM, and then you get the chance to bask in what You've learned and appreciate it more.

I'll even let you see and give feedback on fiction works in progress. After all, fiction is the best tool for empathy out there and it's going to make you a better reader if you give me feedback on my work.

Being disabled, I'm an expert problem solver. Maybe there's a conflict you're having with the staff that live in the house/mansion. Let me ascertain the source of the problem and provide a solution.

Ultimately, while having a stable place to eat good, healthy, food would be nice, along with a room that isn't bracketed by the outside elements, my intention isn't to just use you. It's to connect with you. It's to share life with you. It's to make you feel less lonely in the world, if you're open to embracing something new.

I don't need an allowance. Heck, I don't even want to have a portion of your money. I'm awful at taxes and wouldn't have a clue how to use your money anyway, except maybe buy a hotel room for twenty years or travel places outside of my country and beyond, visiting other cultures, learning about them, basking in their history for once instead of telling someone all about mine.

Having a place with stable wireless would be fantastic too. This way, when I try and backup my writing to the cloud, it will actually reliably save whoever's computer. You'd be giving me so much without giving me money. I, in turn, will be giving you a crash course into a world not many people get to see.

I'd also honestly love traveling with you. Let's explore the world. Zero expectations! Knowledge is power, and as I'm sure you know, there's a ton of knowledge out there in history, language, culture, and customs.

I would, however, want to come back again if I thoroughly enjoyed myself in your estate. If you didn't enjoy having me, or if I didn't enjoy myself, I'll just leave, and I won't bother you again. This way, no drama happens between us.

I can't cook to save my life, but I do actually love washing dishes by hand as I listen to an audiobook or a podcast, so I wouldn't mind helping staff with the dishes. As long as it's a team effort though. I don't want to be doing all of them alone. Besides, it could be fun!

That's my promise to you. That's my answer to you. If you're a kind rich human and have no idea what to do with your life, let me visit you in your estate/condo/giant house of choice. I'll have stability, and you'll have your whole world changed just with some questions and conversations and experiences.

Trust me, it's going to be worth it!