---
title: "I'm Afraid For You."
date: 2025-04-08
tags: "blog and journal"
---

If you live under fascism, like I currently do, every day you wake up is a miracle.

It's often said that when times are tough, you learn who your real friends are. Ironically, some of the best of friends I have aren't even geographically close to me. The ultimate irony if I do say so myself.

I received an email back when this site was going through it's transitional period. Well, as you can see, the new site is live now, so I'll print this email I received.

The email is from a black French man, but he travels a lot for his work. Name's have been changed, of course.

I think this email speaks for itself.

<h2>The email.</h2>

From Frederick XXX

To Robert Kingett <Contact Me>

Robbie,

Firstly, thank you for the private journal. It made me laugh and cry and, as always, I understood the interpersonal side of activism a bit better after reading about your day and your cute way of flirting awkwardly! I am so glad I have an American friend such as yourself.

I am writing today to express something that is deep in my heart though. As a citizen in international countries, I am afraid for your life and safety.

I know I am not an American citizen, but because I have you, the best American friend in a long while, I am beginning to keep up with American news over there. I want to be aware of the issues you and other American writers are trying to warn your country about. I am sorry nobody’s listening or not enough people are listening.

You have opened my eyes in an incredibly unique way, though. Before you, I did not have disabled friends. They were always people I should care about, certainly, but I never got to know them on an individual level. Thanks to you, my knowledge has expanded beyond anything I could have hoped for, and I do not know how to thank you for this gift.

As I continue to watch Donald Trump embarrass your country, I am becoming more worried about you by the day.

It is inconceivable to me that other Americans would be more than happy to eliminate services you, and people like you, depend on for survival because of an unequal society. I am sure our country has its own many Ableism problems, but it is astonishing to me how so many Americans are afraid of community and unity, all in the name of achieving more power or more wealth. I know these systems are not ideal, but they do allow so many people to at least live a better life over there. Not a perfect one by any means, but enough to at least feel comfortable enough to either fight for better, as an activist, or contribute to their communities, or even contribute by working and sharing work and allowing others to see a difference in strength or weakness.

In truth, though. I am writing to tell you that I can unequivocally say that Donald Trump is unlike other elected officials. This point is so starkly apparent that I am writing to you today to tell you that we are watching from afar, scared you will not make it out alive or at least intact. We love you over here, and We've taken steps to formulate a withdrawal plan for you if you need to leave your country for safety reasons. I am not being hyperbolic. I and others are truly afraid for you because we love you and we do not want to have anything happen to you.

Damion used his government connections to gather up immigration resources for disabled people and will be emailing them to you in a few days. This is something we have never had to look up before. We are preparing for it if you need an exit. It was my idea, but Damion agreed. We both are utterly terrified for you, so we wanted to prepare.

We love you. We do not want to wake up one morning and have someone writing on your website that You have perished because people do not care about you. Others might say politics is politics and everything will be okay, but as you say, “everything has a consequence that is rarely immediate in its reaction.”

I hope you do not see me as being hyperbolic. I'm truly afraid for you. Damion is too. We really do love you and we are all afraid for you over here. We have started making moves to make immigration easier for you if you ever need an escape. I do not mean to sound alarmist, but I am not losing someone I love to a Nazi king.

We would also like to offer our home to you if you do need to immigrate. We are afraid for you. We love you we do not want to see you taken from us by a Nazi American government.

Do not worry about bothering me if you want to call. If I am unable to talk, Damion can talk to you while I am busy but never feel as if you are a burden to us or me. I love you. We love you.

Thank you for being one of the good white Americans! In all seriousness though, please consider it and we would be more than welcome to house you here. Our country needs a strong writer such as yourself.

Until next time, many hugs and kisses. Allow me to say this again. I love you. We love you. You are not alone. Everyone here will help you if you need it.

We care for you. When you need us, we are always here.