---
title: Audio only Let's Plays With Audio Description.
date: 2025-04-09
tags: ["blog and journal", "highlights", "rants"]
---

If you're blind or prefer audio content, like me, or just find that YouTube is becoming more and more cumbersome to use, audio [Let's Plays](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Let%27s_Play) are out there, and, over the past month, I've become enamored with finding audio only Let's Plays to listen, and try.

[If you don't know what a Let's Play is, read this,](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Let%27s_Play) but it's basically an activity where you watch someone play a video game. It can be very relaxing as the person gives commentary or talks about the game or their thoughts about the game or just reacts to the game's story in real time as they are playing.

Let's Plays are usually a visual thing. They're everywhere on YouTube, and are just now starting to make their way to [PeerTube,](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PeerTube) for example, but even in the realm of Let's Plays, audio only Let's Plays are still very rare, which is interesting because video games have audio description now, which would be perfect for any of the podcasts below, but baby steps I guess?

My quest to find audio Let's Plays started because YouTube has become very cumbersome to use. I don't just mean annoying. I mean it feels actively hostile to free users if you don't have a premium subscription, which, well, I'll never have because fuck Google, but the things that make YouTube actively hostile to use now are as follows.

1 YouTube actively strangling their third party API access so other front ends don't work. This also makes it harder for people to turn YouTube channels into podcast feeds.

2 Literal product ads flood search results instead of YouTube videos when searching on the official mobile apps.

3\. Ads that eclipse or otherwise prevent me from watching the video. For example, I clicked on a video, intending to watch it. The ad itself was a three hour video designed to look, and sound like, a YouTube video. If I didn't know the patterns of YouTube by now to have an ad before every video, I wouldn't be able to tell the video I was supposed to be watching from the ad that was also shot as if it were a YouTube video. Another example of this is ads popping up so frequently that I can't even make it five minutes past a video without multiple ads playing.

4\. The app accessibility fluctuates so much between releases I consider the apps, on all platforms, to be forever broken.

Because I find YouTube so broken, I am starting to prefer more open spaces such as podcasts and PeerTube. Not everyone is on PeerTube though so podcasts have been my go to for a while now, partially because [they aren't subjected to tech deterioration](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Enshittification) as much as proprietary platforms.

Simply put, if anything about a podcast app annoys me or feels hostile, I'm not locked into that app. I can take my RSS feeds and move elsewhere, and creators don't lose an audience member/fan. This isn't the case with YouTube. Podcasts also take up less battery life because they're audio based and they're easier to stream and download for offline listening.

Since podcasts are my go to now, and long into the future, one thing I was missing was Let's Play content. I love Let's Play content because maybe I'm interested in a game, but not interested enough to play it. I can still engage with the story and the lor  and have a good time listening to someone else play the game and talk about the game.

Even today, few games are accessible enough to where I can play them independently as a totally blind person. Let's Plays act as a gateway for me to experience, tangentionally, a previously inaccessible game.

I wanted to take Let's Plays into my podcast apps with me, so I began researching to see what audio Let's Plays exist. I'm super happy to say I've found some!

## The audio Let's Plays.

Before my list, [here's another list of audio Let's Play podcasts](https://archive.is/EqHl2) but many of the links in this post are broken, but it's still worth exploring.

I intentionally wrote about the below podcasts in the past tense, partially because I'm lazy and all podcasts end at some point.

I also explain which ones provide audio description, describing what's happening for the listener.

1. [No One can Know About this.](https://noonecanknowaboutthis.podbean.com/) A heavily edited Let's Play podcast that focused a lot on Final Fantasy Games, with their own brand of audio description thrown in as well.
1. [Gorilla's playthroughs.](https://creators.spotify.com/pod/profile/gorillasplaythrough/) Provides audio description for games and even describes the menus sometimes. Shockingly, my sighted friends loved the audio description touches in this podcast because it's absolutely meant for audio since it's made with blind listeners in mind.
1. [Hello Hyrule: A Legend of Zelda Travelogue.](https://creators.spotify.com/pod/profile/hyrulepod/) Played through all the Zelda games and also provided audio description and reads off dialog. Very fun crew!
1. [Sacred Realms: A Zelda Retrospective Podcast.](https://sacredrealmspod.buzzsprout.com/) Recorded in traditional Let's Play style where no audio description is provided but commentary abounds. Excellent sound quality.
1. [Enchantment: Dragon Age Let's Play Podcast.](https://creators.spotify.com/pod/profile/enchantmentcast/) Traditional Let's Play style without audio description but still very fun crew. They branched out to other games, but their back catalog focused primarily on Dragon Age.
1. [Play Along Podcast.](https://creators.spotify.com/pod/profile/playalongpodcast/) Another traditional Let's Play style, but they focused a lot on indie games, which I loved! They'd sometimes provide audio description but mostly it was commentary and discussion.
1. [Let's Listen.](https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/lets-listen/id1512693192) Provided audio description. Story-driven Let's Plays in an audio-only format! Let's Listen to removed the loading screens, gameplay, and boring bits of video games, so you can sit back and enjoy the story.
1. [Lokathor's Audio Only Let's Plays.](https://creators.spotify.com/pod/profile/lokathor/) Played all kinds of games. No audio description though, but still very fun!
1. [Checkin' It: An Audio-Only Let's Play Podcast.](https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/checkin-it-an-audio-only-lets-play-podcast/id1646374492) Played a bunch of chess and chess style games.
1. [Skeleton House - Video Game Let's Plays.](https://skeletonhouse.buzzsprout.com/1250891/about) Played a bunch of games with a lively crew! Sometimes provided audio description but not consistently.