---
title: >-
  How to Save the World- The Compassiviste Anthology: Volume One: Visions for Peace
date: 2024-03-11T19:41:02.000Z
tags:
  - Anthologies
  - Nonfiction anthologies
  - Nonfiction books
  - Personal essays
  - Ebook
  - Nonfiction
---

![It has the title "How to Change the World- The Compassiviste Anthology" in white text on a grey background, running vertically down the left-hand side of the cover. Across the top, in black block letters, it reads "Volume One: Visions for Peace." In the centre of the cover, there is an abstract group of figures holding each other. It's unclear whether they are male or female, or what race they are. The image is mostly black and white, with an orange streak circling the figures. The Compassiviste logo (an orange C) is in the bottom left-hand corner.](/img/how-to-change-the-world-cover.jpeg)

Cover description provided by the publisher.

It has the title "How to Change the World- The Compassiviste Anthology" in white text on a grey background, running vertically down the left-hand side of the cover. Across the top, in black block letters, it reads "Volume One: Visions for Peace." In the centre of the cover, there is an abstract group of figures holding each other. It’s unclear whether they are male or female, or what race they are. The image is mostly black and white, with an orange streak circling the figures. The Compassiviste logo (an orange C) is in the bottom left-hand corner.

Publisher: [Compassiviste Publishing.](https://compassivistepublishing.com/contact/)

## About the anthology.

> What does it mean to live in harmony? Is true peace even possible? And how do we continue to live meaningful lives when conflict seems so inescapable?
>
> In this collection of essays, short stories, book extracts and poetry, authors from around the world reflect on the theme “Visions for Peace” and what it means to them.
>
> All profits from the sale of How to Change the World: The Compassiviste Anthology go to the Compassiviste Foundation to help build a fairer and more harmonious Planet Earth.
>
> Contributors include: Carl M.A. Arden, Joe Bisicchia, Bhargavi Chatterjea Bhattacharyya, BA Brittingham, Vanessa Caraveo, Binod Dawadi, Libby Hoffman, Ali Horriyat, Stacey Huish, Barbara Anna Gaiardoni, Nitsan Joy Gordon, Robert Kingett, Rebecca Klassen, Christine Law, Allan Lake, Anna Maria Mickiewicz, Davion Moore, Jon Nakapalau, James B. Nicola, Honey Novick, KV Raghupathi, CLS Sandoval, Ndaba Sibanda, SP Singh, and Lynn White.

## Buy the eBook.

[Buy on Barns and Noble.](https://www.barnesandnoble.com/w/visions-for-peace-compassiviste-authors-collective/1145056316?ean=2940179734314)

[Buy on Kobo.](https://www.kobo.com/au/en/ebook/visions-for-peace)

[Buy on Amazon.](https://www.amazon.com/How-Save-World-Compassiviste-Anthology-ebook/dp/B0CW1FVQSC/ref=sr_1_1?dib=eyJ2IjoiMSJ9.3VMDJ3WhIPl1NZ3o0Xmi_Q.2BIpD8QiZcu9ZaZwpUA0CABVH-8T6cX0eEp6ztqboq0&dib_tag=se&qid=1710159938&refinements=p_27%3ACompassiviste+Authors%27+Collective&s=digital-text&sr=1-1&text=Compassiviste+Authors%27+Collective)
