---
title: The best serial fiction platform is your website
date: 2024-05-14T08:13:45.000Z
metadata:
  categories:
    - Blog and journal.
  tags:
    - DRM free
    - Free
    - Random thoughts
tags:
  - blog-and-journal
---

It’s a strange time on the web. Not because tech seems to get even richer than it already is without improving our lives, but in my current century, sex between consenting adults is worse than tech making money and not helping people.

When I say sex, I really do mean sex. I’ll be focusing on sex and art because I’m an artist. Erotica writers and even some romance writers are facing a backlash like you wouldn’t believe. Book bans are at an astronomical high in my country than they ever have before, platforms like Patreon and others are banning any kind of erotica. Visual. Written. You name it. They’re banning it, trying to make the web more friendly. Advertiser friendly? Sanitized? Who knows? It all boils down to the same kind of soft bans all around the tech sphere.

The best place to publish serial fiction, in my opinion, is on your website. Almost all of the serial platforms out there today, and I’m not linking to one in particular because there’s a bunch of them, don’t really give you an easy way to delete your work. I’m not giving anybody else that level of access to my work. It’s mine, I should be able to delete my work and or take it elsewhere if I lose an offline copy. I should be able to logon and download the work from the server at whim because it’s my work. It doesn’t belong to the platform, it belongs to me.

Unless you have your own website, like I do, it’s inevitable you will get banned from somewhere if you post erotica or the steamier side of romance for adults. Why? Because banks and payment platforms don’t like art with sex with consenting adults. Period.

All banks and or payment processors decided that adult sexual art isn’t good for anybody, and this included consenting adults. Hopefully times will change, and hopefully we can find a balance of keeping [child pornography](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Child_pornography) away while letting adults and of age, consenting, young adults, exist on the internet.

I usually don’t write erotica. I have done it, and wow that was very fun, but I’m a romance writer. While I do read erotica from time to time, that isn’t usually my genre. Still, there are reasons why erotica is empowering for some people, especially marginalized people.

Because platforms have decided that they’d rather ban erotic work than fight for their artists, I’ve been working on taking all of my trunk writing down from websites, platforms, and, either [giving it away for free](/free/) or [posting it to my mailing list.](https://buttondown.com/weirdwriter)

## Mailing list and serial fiction.

[I’ve moved everything to my mailing list,](https://buttondown.com/weirdwriter) where you can pay per email just like Patreon used to do, which is fantastic for my serial fiction work!

[After registering to my list,](https://buttondown.com/weirdwriter) you’ll get an email on how to financially support the mailing list. You can also [support me financially in other ways, here.](/support/)
